Lecturer: Welcome back.
In this lecture,
we are going to implement requests sending limits,
which is nothing but resources for our container
inside the port, right?
So, if you see here on a very high-level,
we can specify how much each container in a port
needs the resources like CPU and then memory.
When we provide this information in our port,
the scheduler uses this information
to decide which note to place this port on.
In simple terms, so once we provide this information,
so scheduler will find out
on which node I have the equivalent resources
whatever provided is available,
and based on that, it'll go ahead and then schedule it.
So when you specify a resource limit for a container,
the Kubelet enforces those limits
so that the running container is not allowed to use
more than the resource, the limit we have set.
In addition to that, the Kubelet also results at least
the requested amount of that system resource
specifically for that container use.
So these two are very important.
So if we have some critical container,
we are going to run on Kubernetes
which should always have that set of CPU and then memory.
So, using these resources like requests and then limit
for your respective container
which is so critical application,
so you can reserve the memory and CPU what it needs.
In addition to that, in high traffic conditions
it might increase to 500 (indistinct) memory
and then 100,000 EMA of CPU,
so then automatically you can even provide that limits.
But it should not cross more than this,
so like that you can even provide these things.
So 1000m is equal to one VCPU core, okay?
So we have provided 0.5 CPU, which is nothing
but 500 M in the same way memory also 128 MI we have given
which is nothing but maybe bytes.
Okay?
So 128 maybe byte is equal to 135 megabytes.
Usually we'll say 1 0 2 4 nbr 100 nbr
fire nbr, right?
So in the same way you can define here maybe bytes, okay?
So I have provided 128 maybe bytes
of memory for my application and CPU I have provided 500 M
which is nothing, but that means milli CPU.
And I also provided the limit that pharma
my user management microservice application
I should not give more than 500 MI
off memory and one core CPU one v CPU.
So now if you see we are using two T3 missions here, right?
So if you go ahead and then provide the limit
US five CPU means like 5,000 M, right?
So based on our limit only
it'll go ahead and then schedule, right?
So our 8,000 CPU.
So, and if my reso, if my respect
to two P three missions doesn't have that
then automatically the port will go under pending state.
Okay? So it'll not come and then create it.
So that's the reason always whenever we are
valuing our resources requests
with the memory CPU limits and then requests.
So we need to ensure
that what is my cluster size and then all those things.
But the other hand here is whenever we go
to the auto scaling concepts, right?
So horizontal part or vertical part or cluster autoscales
whenever you enable those things.
So these things really doesn't matter
which means once you define these things
for your specific things which are critical
and already you enable the auto scaling stuff there.
So whenever things reaches the limits automatically
the cluster will auto scale
with notes and in addition to that
it'll also scale whatever the resources it is required.
So based on that, usually it'll not have an issue.
But if you are using small clusters
and then if you have trouble right in defining those things
so then obviously you need to be very careful
about what you are defining
and then how much your application is going to consume.
So with that set we can go ahead
and then define these things in our application, right?
So which is nothing but resources, requests, memory, CPU
and then limits memory CPU, okay?
So this is part of our container definition.
So which is nothing but which should be under environment
same level, which is liveness probes, readiness probes.
And it should be here also at the same level, okay?
So which is nothing but resources.
And under that we'll have two things.
One is request and the other is limits.
Okay? Under request we are going to have CPU
and memory, right?
And under limits also we are going to have CPU
and memory and you can copy
and paste whatever is there available here, right?
So memory is going to be 128 MI, right?
And CPU is 500 M, okay?
So in the same way here also the CPU is going
to be 100 M, right?
And this one is going to be 500 MI, okay
so for this demo I'm going to put this
and then later I'm going to remove this resource request
in the next lectures means like
in all the templates I'm going to remove these things.
Why? Because I really don't want to block my cluster
related resources for 500 means
like half CPU and then 128 MI
for this respective user management microservice only.
So if it want to take
how much it want to take, it can take it.
But if I want to scale this right means like
if I scale to 10 and then automatically my cluster
whatever these two P three medium servers might go
into pending state.
So that's the reason I'm going to remove.
And the next templates, whatever you see
in the next sections of here, whatever you see
these might not be there but you really don't need to worry.
We learned it in this section
and then after that we removed it.
Okay? So let's have it that way.
Okay, so let me save it, right?
So we have savor this one and now what we are going
to do here is we'll go back
to our create gate objects and then test it.
So let's go back to our terminal.
So I am in zero, we'll go to zero five section
and then 0 5, 0 4 section we need to go
which is request and then limits and I'll clear
and Q CT apply high for F and then cube manifests.
Okay? So and then everything should get created
and then ideally we should not have any issue.
So why?
Because our cluster has that level of capacity.
So, and then we can watch the ports here
and it will take a while to get the container
my scale container gets created and then
from in container it need to go
to liveness and then readiness probes
all those things will take, right?
So until it is ready, I'll pause the video.
So our part is running now user management part.
So let me come back out of this
and then I can secure parts and then all our running.
So we can go to browser and then verify.
And our application is up and running.
So one thing we can check here is kubectl
and then get notes and then let's see our node, right?
So kubectl and then describe one of the node
right to understand what we have
how the resources are distributed for that node, right?
So I just need to provide that describe node here.
So let me do that, right?
Okay. So if you see here, so for my scale
we didn't define any CPU requests are CPU limits, okay?
For cube system, AWS node already it is defined
which is system related stuff, okay?
Or for cube system cube proxy also 100
MF CPU is reserved for them.
Okay? In the same way, let's see our
in our default name space we have something
called user management microservice.
Okay? So let me make this smaller and then see what happens.
Okay?
So I just reduce the font to understand little bit clear.
So you can see in the default name space we
have user management microservice.
So we have requested 500 M means
like my request is 500 M and my limit is one.
So what is this?
25%? And then what is this?
51% is from this node of 25% of this node.
I am, I have already requested
and then I'm going to, that is resort
for this respective too user management microservice, okay?
And it's limited
I'm going to use one CPU, which is nothing.
But if you see here for that T3 medium, so if you come here
right? No, not this one.
Okay? Yeah.
So if you come here for the T3 medium
so you have something called two V CPU
and then four gbf memory.
So out of two V C P, one V C P, you have already resort
for this user management microservice.
What it states for us is already you are using 51%
of the CPU from this respective note.
So that's what it is trying to tell us.
In the same way
128 MI I am using as a request, which is nothing
but three percent is already resolved
from the entire four gb.
And in addition to that 500 MI
which is 14% is result for this limit.
Okay, So how much is the limit here?
It is 4G ib, out of which this much it is resort.
It is saying in the same way, if you see here
this is the overall for this node.
In the same way for the other node also we'll have, right
So in that line, so whenever we are defining the requests
and then limits for our respective containers
we need to ensure that proper planning is required and then
if my cluster will sustain in high load conditions or not.
And considering the cluster level resources
what it consumes, like whatever the cube system
or whatever is present in the cube system
like in future you might install external DNS
or L being risk controller.
A lot of other things will come
into the picture which are system related.
So for all those things, considering we need to ensure
that how much this cluster can allocate
and then accordingly we need to decide.
So this completes the understanding of resources
and requests and then we have also implemented it.
So let's go ahead and then delete them now.
So let me paste it and then delete it.
And let's also go back for our previous font.
Okay? So in our next lecture we'll focus on name spaces.
So I'll see you in the next lecture and then bye bye.
Thank you.